I have finished the review of this paper and unfortunately my recommendation to the editor will be to reject it. This recommendation is not made lightly. I really like the research program on which the author is involved, and I think she/he is clearly above the mean in regards to methodological expertise and writing ability. Furthermore, I like the front end of the paper in general. I think the discussion on Collaborative Management, and the need to link it more decisively to relevant environmental quality indicators is a much-needed development in policy studies, as the author rightly shows. However, one gets past the strong methodological contribution of this paper, it seems that all in all the paper is less than overwhelming in regards to its theoretical contribution. This is so because there are important limitations in the test of the second hypothesis, as shown below, and because the indicator used to capture collaborative management (funds) could confound the presence of other variables that are not explicitly accounted for in the analysis and that could have no relationship to collaborative management. 
The author can find my comments below. The first two are the ones that I consider most important, and on which I based my recommendation. I hope these comments help the author in future iterations/submissions of the paper. 
1.	I’ll start with what I consider to be the greatest weakness in the paper, and that is the fact that research question #2 (page 2) and consequently hypothesis 2 are not really answered/tested. The author makes considerable efforts to present the second hypothesis, and one could argue that this is really the core expectation to be tested in the paper, only to find out in the second paragraph of the discussion that “measurement challenges likely account” for the fact that a significant measurable impact from spending on restoration challenges cannot be identified. The author spends page 26 explaining what the problem is, and states at the end of that page that the results should not discredit the impact of restoration activities (even though we don’t see this impact). If this is the case, however, one ends up with the clear sense that at the end of the day that we don’t know more about the second research question than we did at the beginning. Another way of putting this even more bluntly would be to say that there is a hypothesis, and the main one at that (the second one), that simply cannot be properly tested. I believe this is a big blow to the paper, regardless of all its strengths (which are plenty). If the main hypothesis cannot be tested properly, then why should we see it in print? I get that the paper makes an important methodological contribution, but I think recommending publication based on this alone is not warranted, particularly at a top journal as JPART.   
2.	Since we are talking about measurement issues, my second biggest issue with the paper is that I wasn’t convinced that funding is really a good indicator, by itself, of collaborative management. This is a construct validity issue, and one that I think deserves attention. Collaborative management is about engaging different actors, with different expertise, goals, and policy beliefs. The author shows that more funds available to councils in fact results in an increase of water quality, but couldn’t the amount of funds the council gets be a proxy for something other than collaborative management? For example, couldn’t it be the case that councils with strong leadership and strong political ties to state officials get more access to funds? If this were the case, would this be indicative of collaborative management, or of something else entirely (i.e. existence of powerful policy brokers who steer policy processes not by engaging in collaborative behavior but by exerting influence on decision-makers). I’m not saying that this is the case, but what I am implying is that there are a bunch of council-level variables that could account for the variance of funds obtained through grants that we know nothing about. The author would benefit from at least arguing against this concern, which I think is reasonable.
3.	The comments that follow are not as important as the previous two. First, I’m not sure the two hypotheses are phrased correctly. As is it stated right now, to properly test the first hypothesis you need data from councils that have received no grant funds whatsoever. I think a better phrasing would be something on the lines of “The greater the amount of grant funds given to nonprofit watershed councils, the better the water quality in the targeted watershed”. The second hypothesis states that grants for restoration will measurably improve water quality, while grants for other projects will not. I don’t think that phrasing reflects the content of the discussion on pages 7-8 leading to the hypothesis, which suggests that grants for restoration may have more of an impact than grants for other projects, but certainly didn’t imply that the latter have no measurably impact on water quality, as stated in the hypothesis. 
4.	I do work on water policy, so I know what HUC means, but most readers won’t so I think you should explain what the acronym means when you introduce it on page 9. 
5.	Section “Model and Methods” needs to be –in general- made more accessible to readers with scant experience in the use of these methods. There’s a lot of information here and sometimes it is difficult to process it. I don’t have very specific pointers for the author, but simply a suggestion to reread it and try to figure out how to make it more reader-friendly, if possible. 
6.	Section “Data”. I was a bit confused in parts of it. For instance, the last paragraph on page 13 describes that OWQI scores are observed on an intermittent monthly basis from 1990 to 2013, and how there are 16676 observations. I thus assumed the author was analyzing all of those, but at the end of the paragraph we see that the analysis is constrained to the period (January 1995-December 2013). At least that’s what I thought it was implied, but next on page 14 the author states that the analysis considers 2509 grants from 1997 to 2013. What 1997 a typo? By the way, there are 2509 grants, but only 2494 grants are summarized in table 1. 
7.	I think some of the information should be moved to an appendix. For instance, Figure 1 could be moved, since it doesn’t really provide any crucial information. It’s nice and illustrative, but not really needed and in fact might be a bit distracting. Also, and most important, the author states on page 24 that she/he has tested an unrestricted model with all four grant types included, with highly similar coefficients. I think that is relevant information that should be made fully available to readers, since it would fend off critics who would argue that the strategy of running separate models by grant type given multicollinearity is far from ideal. The appendix would be a good place to do it. 
8.	Question about the last paragraph in the section “Covariates”. Shouldn’t the NLCD data be matched to water quality observations that were collected after the NLCD? This is the case with the 1992 NLCD, which are matched to water quality observations from 1995-2001, and the 2001 NLCD, which is matched to water quality from 2002 to 2005. But shouldn’t this last matched be done to water quality data from 2002 to 2006 instead? Then the 2006 NLCD should be matched to quarter quality from 2007 to 2011 (instead of to data from 2006 to 2010) and finally the 2011 NLCD should be matched to water quality from 2012 to 2013 (instead of 2010 to 2013). I must be missing something here, so a clarification would be welcome on how the matching was done in this way, which seems inconsistent to me. 
9.	There are multiple typos throughout the document. I suggest an editorial scrubbing for future submissions. 
10.	Page 19: “Table 2 presents the results associated with each of these models, as well as a model without the SPDE component”. I fail to see the model without the SPDE in the table.
11.	First full paragraph on page 23, “I break down grant funds into four categories…” I think you neglected to mention the grants to support administrative expenses at the council level. 
I hope these comments are of value to the author. 
