Thank you for the opportunity to review this manuscript.  It tackles an important research question, one that is of great value to those studying and promoting collaborative natural resource management.  As the author notes, much scholarship has examined various aspects of collaborative watershed management but very rarely does a study convincingly test hypotheses about the effects on environmental outcomes.

I think it is a good idea to differentiate among types of grants, as the author does:  (1) restoration projects, (2) council support (build capacity), (3) technical/monitoring, (4) education and outreach.  If we can determine which type of grants are linked to which kinds of outcomes, and in particular if we can ascertain a causal link from grant type to outcomes, then this will provide valuable insights to policy makers in many states grappling with the question of how best to support collaborative watershed efforts.

The author taps into a large database of a state grant program and combines it with spatial data about water quality from a comprehensive water quality index over time.  This should allow the analysis to control for many variables that potentially affect water quality in order to tease out the effects of grant funding.  I cannot speak to the validity of the Bayesian approach taken here, but I can speak to some questions that the manuscript raises for me.

1.  A curious result is that restoration projects are least likely to be associated with high water quality.  While the author reasonably argues this could be a result of a mismatch in data between the water quality measure (at a given point in the watershed) and the restoration project (not necessarily near or even upstream from the water quality measure), it is also possible that the result could be an instance of selection bias.  Perhaps restoration projects are granted for the most impaired watersheds, in which case after the projects these watersheds still have lower water quality than other watersheds that did not receive restoration projects.  To test for this relationship, a measure of water quality improvement rather than simply quality would be informative.  In addition, the author should provide information about how the grant decisions were made – what criteria were used to make awards – to see whether the most impaired watersheds were given grants for direct project work while less impaired watersheds received grants for education/outreach and administrative tasks and technical support/monitoring.  A few interviews with program administrators, plus a review of details of grant RFPs, could provide this information.  The author does say that “Because grants are awarded by OWEB on a competitive basis, these data are not suitable for providing a generalizable estimate of how funding collaborative management in a randomly selected watershed improves water quality. This is because the grant application and approval process is intended to identify and select motivated parties and favorable circumstances, which results in selection bias at the watershed level of analysis. However, what is really of interest in this case is the efficacy of Oregon's statewide support of a collaborative watershed management system.”  However this argument is belied by subsequent analysis that does compare watersheds to other watersheds to test for association between grants and water quality.  I am not concerned with randomly selected watershed funding, but I rather whether grant selection bias colors the analysis of the link between grants and water quality.

2.  A confounding factor not addressed in the analysis is the constellation of funding sources outside of the OWEB program.  If a group doesn’t get OWEB funding do they have other sources such as NRCS, SWCD, EPA, etc.?  If such other funding sources are substitutes, then the OWEB funding won’t have an effect because places without OWEB funds are more likely to get funds from other sources.  So tell the reader about the suite of sources from which restoration projects, education/outreach, administration, and technical/monitoring work gets done in Oregon, and how these sources interact with OWEB funding.

3.  The author hypothesizes that greater grant yields greater water quality improvement.  Might there be a curvilinear relationship that after a certain point more funding yields less improvement? Or that in some contexts the grants helps more than others?  Does the Bayesian analysis assume a linear relationship?  If so, then a curvilinear relationship might show up as a null finding.


The author describes restoration funding as an example of government providing a direct service through an intermediary, in this case a watershed council.  This led me to wonder whether there are any comparative cases where the government did the work directly rather than through a watershed council.  If so, then the author could tap into the rich public administration literature on government contracting, and the classic “make vs. buy” decision.  At a minimum, this could be a suggested avenue for further inquiry if it does not fit in this manuscript.

Overall this is a strong effort with potential to be a highly cited article among collaborative natural resource management scholars, if the author can address my three main questions above.
