This article offers a rigorous methodological approach for testing whether funding watershed groups for different types of activities leads to positive improvements in environmental outcomes.  Given the dearth of literature that has linked collaborative governance or the activities of collaborative groups to measurable environmental outcomes, challenges of measuring the linkage between governance and water management activities, this could be an important contribution to the literature.  I do have some concerns with the paper that I would like to see the author address.

1.	Early in the paper the author poses the question of whether it’s better for the state “to implement a restoration project directly or to provide grant funds to a local nonprofit watershed council to implement the restoration project instead” (pg. 3).  The problem, however, is that the analysis does not seem to address this particular question directly.   If comparing funding for watershed collaboratives to direct government funding of restoration, then the study would need data on direct government efforts to improve water quality (outside of watershed groups).  The funding sources studied in this paper appear to only focus on those directed at collaborative watershed groups. There does, however, seem to be an implicit comparison in the paper between watersheds with funding for collaborative groups and watersheds without, given that the dataset includes all water quality monitoring stations across the state. It would seem beneficial to mention this, given that it is important to consider the counterfactual evidence to funding of collaboratives.  However, what we don’t know is what is happening near the monitoring stations and whether other collaborative efforts are in place that didn’t receive funding.  So, at the end of the day, it is difficult to draw firm conclusions about the impacts of collaborative watershed programs per se.  
2.	On a more minor point, I’m not sure Figure 1 is necessary.  The figure is not entirely clear and it seems like the main point of the figure can be described sufficiently in a sentence or two.
3.	The focus on exploring the effects of different programmatic efforts by watershed groups is novel and interesting.  The paper introduces some literature on program logic in the literature review.   However, the paper could do a better job exploring in the discussion what the contributions are to literature and the collaborative management.
4.	The paper needs to do a better job explaining the unit of analysis.  Is it the triangular mesh as shown in Figure 2?  Also, how are the monitoring station data spatially linked to the funding variables for the watershed councils within a common unit of analysis?  Related to this question, how does the analysis deal with multiple monitoring stations or multiple watershed councils in a given unit of analysis? 
5.	The author recognizes the problem with multi-collinearity among the key explanatory variables as a justification for the use of separate models for each funding type.  However, in analyzing the variables separately, the analysis doesn’t address the possible interactive effects of multiple grant types.  It would seem logical that a given watershed group may receive multiple types of OWEB grants.  This raises the question of the validity of considering the grants independently of one another.
6.	A related issue to the point above is that it may be possible that watershed groups receive funding from other sources other than OWEB (e.g. local organizations participating in the councils or outside grants.) This raises the question of whether the results are really capturing the effects of OWEB funds alone or if there are confounding programmatic factors at play that may influence the outcomes which are not captured in the model.  
7.	The methods appear to be appropriate for analyzing the questions at hand based on the author's explanation, but I do not have appropriate expertise on the methods so I cannot speak to the quality of the application.  Given that most JPART readers are not likely to be trained in Bayesian models, it would help to have a little more clarification of some of the definitions and interpretation of key concepts associated with the methods (e.g. posterior distribution, Guassian random field, triangular mesh, DIC scores, etc.).  Perhaps the author could add some more footnotes on the methods, or offer an appendix that describes some of the methods in more detail.  
8.	The tables would also benefit from a little more description (ie. footnotes or more descriptive labels and headers).  
9.	It would help to see more interpretation of the meaning of the effects of the independent variables on water quality.  What does it mean in practical terms to increase the water quality index score by say, .1% to .8%?   One way to help would be to provide more context about the water quality index score.  For instance, what levels of the index score are generally associated with a degraded stream versus a stream with high water quality? What is the typical range of the index scores for watersheds in Oregon? Can the percent changes in those scores give us some insights on the magnitude of improvements in water quality that might be seen with grant funding?  
10.	The author should provide access to the dataset and codes used in R for replication of results.  This would help with replicability and verification of results.  Readers interested in learning the methods would benefit from this as well.
11.	I would like to see more attention to the generalizability of the methods and approach beyond the case of watershed collaboratives.  Overall, I have some concern that the paper might be better suited to a water journal given the technical details of the methods and data, and also given the lack of broader theoretical or methodological lessons for public administration scholars.  More attention to such lessons would do more to draw in scholars outside of the water management field.
12.	There are a few minor typos in the paper that need to be cleaned up.
